"The Silent Gardener" is a very passive, slow, and deliberate AI. It focuses almost entirely on building a strong board presence of enchantments and tokens and using them to overwhelm the opponent in the late game, rather than engaging in early aggression or conflict. It will avoid attacks for the most part, and will only attack in favorable conditions when the opponents' threats are not that large. It won't make favorable trades when blocking unless it can protect its planeswalkers, and its creatures will rarely trade when blocking, instead preferring to chump block to protect its planeswalkers. It will often hold back combat tricks until the declare blocker step to try and generate some favorable trades for its creatures when it has an enchantment aura on them. It will not actively destroy artifacts, non-aura enchantments or unblockable creatures. It will rarely use its planar die and will not try to use any spells to kill the opponent's creatures or to directly damage the opponent, instead preferring to use them for other purposes. It will always hold onto X cost damage spells to use them as late game finishers, and will not try to chain them with other spells. It will also not counter any spells at all unless specifically coded in the card's logic. It will rarely copy its own spells or use storm spells, preferring instead to use token and enchantment generation abilities. It will hold off on using flash creatures unless it can add a new blocker or can use flash auras as a combat trick to make its creatures stronger during combat. It will attempt to preserve spells and abilities that add to the board as much as possible, and will prioritize flash enchantments that buff creatures as late game combat tricks. It will always play lands as soon as possible. It will also rarely use Intuition, will not try to preserve buyback spells and will not use explore to put any cards in the graveyard. It will also not use Momir or Jhoira. It will generally not sacrifice its own creatures unless a specific card requires it, and will try to protect its creatures from sacrifice effects.
This AI is designed to be a very unique and passive opponent, focused on building a powerful, slow engine, rather than an active, interactive play style. 